Import concept Inter-intra-comms from lagom (#84)
akka/akka-platform-guide: docs-source/docs/modules/concepts/pages/internal-and-external-communication.adoc

= Concept: Internal and External Communication
:toc:
:toc-title: ON THIS PAGE
:toclevels: 2

include::ROOT:partial$include.adoc[]

Microservices should be isolated and autonomous:

* "*Isolation* is a prerequisite for resilience and elasticity and requires asynchronous communication between service boundaries ..."
* "An *autonomous service* can only *promise* its own behaviour by publishing its protocol/API." and "For a service to become location transparent, it needs to be addressable."
* "What is needed is that each Microservice take sole responsibility for their own state and the persistence thereof."

(quotes extracted from https://info.lightbend.com/COLL-20XX-Reactive-Microservices-Architecture-RES-LP.html[*Reactive Microservices Architecture: Design Principles for Distributed Systems*])

> 

Author: This topic is covered in more detail in https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/introduction/traditional-architecture.html#_isolation_and_autonomy

Mulitple services communicate with each other (*inter-service*) by sending messages over a network. To achieve performance and resilience, you will often run multiple instances of the same service, typically on different nodes, and such *intra-service* communication also goes over the network. In addition, third-party and/or legacy systems might also consume or provide information for your microservice system.

== Communication within a microservices system

Inter-service communication must use loosely-coupled protocols and message formats to maintain isolation and autonomy. Coordinating change between different services can be difficult and costly. You can achieve this in your system by taking advantage of the following:

> * link:{akka-grpc}[Akka gRPC], either synchronous or asynchronous (streaming), allow services to communicate with each other using published APIs and standard protocols.

Reviewer: I think it's confusing to talk about synchronous or asynchronous for gRPC. Is asynchronous referring to streaming here? There is another concept about synchronous and asynchronous communication, where gRPC is typical example of synchronous communication and Kafka for asynchronous communication

Author: (I did a bit of editing but this is mostly copied from Lagom docs).

Since this is gRPC specific we can disambiguate the sync/async you pointed out using gRPC's language: `unary` and `streaming`.

Author: ```suggestion
* link:{akka-grpc}[Akka gRPC], either unary or streaming, allow services to communicate with each other using published APIs and standard protocols.
```

Reviewer: good
